##Current trends Social Media IS30320
================================
David Hatch

Student Number: 11517977

Social analysis is mainly based on the assumption of the linking relationship between interacting units. This social network perspective shows applications, theories and models that are displayed through different processes and concepts.

For our first lab exercise, we were asked to create our own network graph. This graph was to be created in Gephi and to be a partial directed social network that showed at least two coloured clusters, with bonding and bridging or strong and weak ties. It was also aimed to follow Netvizz Nirvana’ standard of graph clarity. To start my graph off I signed into Facebook and typed “Netvizz” into the search bar. It asks for your permission to use your network. Netvizz is a tool that then extracts data from different sections of the Facebook platform with could include your personal profile, groups, pages and use them for research purposes. Once I selected what information I wished to use, I opened that information up in Gephi. Before beginning my graph, I took time to read the required readings. I learned that visualisations are VISUAL, which means that if I used pictures for all the nodes it would make it a messy graph but also if I included no labels or pictures then my graph would become confusing and possibly a meaningless graph.

Once I began my graph I made sure to keep Schnederman’s netvizz nirvana in consideration. My first process was to make sure that every single edge in my networking graph can be followed easily from the source to the destination, and also that all vertex edges are visible. I then moved on to nodes. Nodes are connection points either a redistribution point or an end point for data transmissions. I took into consideration what the reading had said so instead of leaving the nodes blank I decided to make sure that each of my nodes had a label but that the label wasn’t too big so that it would make my graph look messy. After nodes I briefly looked into bridging and bonding which are sometimes compared to one another. Bridging is the basic operation of joining two or more network segments. Network bonding refers to the combination of network interfaces on one host for redundancy and/or increased throughput. Betweenness also played a part in the graph too. “Betweenness is the number of the shortest paths an actor is on (Conway, 2009). This can be seen on my graph when one vertex is on a path between two other vertex, hence the name. This vertex could take another path but that would not be the shortest path. Eigenvector Centrality was also another point in which we had to look at. This is a measure that reflects the fact that not all connections on the graph are equal, and infact, connections to people that are more important (Newman,2012).Following this, modularity was run in order to colour the nodes, edges and particular clusters. In order to create a more partial network (hence making the graph clearer to read) the topology filter was selected. Using the degree range filter, ranging from 15 to 50, it allowed the graph to be clear, showing edges and nodes. I now made sure that my graph had 2 different colour clusters. In the preview section, labels and arrows were added and it was exported to PDF.

#####Summary
In summary Network analysis and visualisation makes finding important features of networks easier in my opinion. NodeXL within the readings was very easy to use and help me through this precess of making this graph. My graph helps show that my network is hugely linked together. I hope this helped explain and give an insight into what particular tools and processes were used to achieve a clear and readable graph.

***
#####Bibliography:

Hansen, D. L., Shneiderman, B., & Smith, M. A. (2011). Analyzing social media networks with NodeXL: Insights from a connected world. Amsterdam: Elsevier, Morgan Kaufmann.
